The Sint-Joostkapel is located in the center of Breda in the middle of one of the main shopping streets, the Ginnekenstraat, in the Breda Center district.
It is the oldest chapel in Breda and was built around 1436. At the time it was dedicated to Saint Josse, the patron saint of plague sufferers. That is why this chapel was then outside the city walls of Breda. Before this chapel was built, a larger wooden chapel (with transept and choir) stood on this site. It is said to have been founded around 1300 by order of Raso II van Gaveren, Lord of Breda.
In 1637 the chapel had to be closed by order of the Protestant magistrate. The building subsequently served as a warehouse, stable and prison for soldiers. The tower was renovated in 1662. At the beginning of the 19th century, the chapel was converted into a home, which it would remain until 1945. On May 3, 1947, Mgr. Petrus Hopmans into the chapel. This was in fulfillment of his promise that a Maria chapel would be set up in Breda if the city would survive the war without major disasters. Although the chapel has been dedicated to Our Lady since 1947, it is popularly called Saint Josse Chapel. The chapel is open to the public and many passers-by enter it to light a candle, for example.
The statue of Mary, the altar and the two prophets' heads under the roof construction were made by Niel Steenbergen, the gilded silver crowns of Mary and child were made by Nico Witteman. The two mosaic pictures on the side walls to the left and right of the altar are by Marius de Leeuw. The left tableau represents the angel's message to Mary, the right one represents the Mother of Sorrows.
The six beautiful stained glass windows show the struggle between Mary and Satan, the promise of Bishop Hopmans to found a devotional chapel, the protection of Breda by Mary, the liberation of the city by the Poles, the donation of the chapel by the city council, the thanks from the bourgeoisie to Mary as the patron saint of the city. The windows were designed by Gisèle van Waterschoot van der Gracht.