18. Walk back through the gate to the Grote Markt and turn left.
The second street on the left is St. Janstraat. Here you enter.

On the corner of Halstraat / St. Janstraat we are in front of the building with the
pillars: the garrison command. The building used to be the "main watch"
mentioned. Before that main guard moved there, St.
Janskapel with behind it the buildings of the Knighthood of St. John.
The members of this order cared for the sick and the poor here.
The street name recalls these knights of St. John. in the chapel the
great city fire of 1534.

The St. Janstraat was once also called the Veterstraat, probably after
the huydvetters or tanners, who their profession in the St. Janstraat
exercised.
On your right in St. Janstraat is the Antonius van Paduakerk, one
remarkably richly executed water management church. This church was built in 1836 as
first Catholic church after the hideout churches period, officially built
should be. In 1853 it became the first episcopal church (cathedral) of it
new diocese in Breda. The seat of the bishop of Breda returned after one
32-year absence at the beginning of 2001, returned to the Antonius Church
which thus regained the status of cathedral. Be on the facade
clearly see the three types of antique columns. From the bottom to the top:
Doric, Ionic and Corinthian columns. The picture above the entrance poses
'Religion' for. The beautiful wooden pulpit immediately falls inside
on. The life of St. Anthony is depicted in various panels.
A little further there are remnants or just memories of two
very distinguished court houses, the Huis Ocrum, which housed the Art Academy until 1994
St. Joost was located and Huis Hersbeeck, now rectory. In 1667
the English envoys who took part in the
Peace negotiations of Breda. The delegates of the Council of State
used the property (no.16) when they were in town on a mission,
but also King Louis Napoleon has stayed there. The bay window of this building
had a controlling function: the pastor could keep a close eye on who was there
went to church.
The Ocrum House (no. 18) was a Roman citizen orphanage from 1848 to 1952. You can
you can still see the cobblestones that adorn the 19th century facade of it
academy building. The red color of this house (after the
restoration) will turn a beautiful gray-red over the years
color of this house (applied after restoration) will show through the course
get a nice gray-red color for years.