
11. From the Havermarkt, go straight ahead into Torenstraat. Immediately past the church, turn left onto Kerkplein.

In 1969 the Torenfeesten were held in Breda out of joy at the conclusion of the restoration period of the Grote Toren, which took 25 years to complete. All this time, the Breda residents, but not only them, have been looking at a tower that concealed its beauty behind a network of scaffolding.
Also between 1995 and 1997, the beauty of the Grote or Onze Lieve Vrouwe Kerk was temporarily hidden behind scaffolding. The interior of the church was again restored in almost three years.
The restoration was divided into three phases. In the first phase, activities such as hosing down the outside, repairing the jointing and stained-glass windows and painting the inside were central. In the second phase, the underfloor heating was installed; In the third phase, the rest of the church has been restored.
Research has shown that the construction of the church started in 1410. In the sixteenth century the church was expanded on the south side and on the north side with a few chapels, the current vestry and the kootomgang. The tower was completed in 1509; The first stone had been laid for this in 1468, so that the construction period all together took forty years. The spire burned down in 1694. In the years that followed, it was rebuilt, among other things with wood that had been donated from his forests by Stadholder King William the third. In 1702 the rooster could be placed on it again. It is clear that the Lords of Breda, especially the Nassau fs, have made an important contribution to the development history of the Grote Kerk. Those Lords of Breda are also buried there; Their tombs are true art-historical showpieces. Prince William of Orange, who was murdered in Delft in 1584, had reserved a final resting place in the Grote Kerk under the beautiful grave monument of Count Engelbert the Second, but his remains and those of the Orange princes who followed him were from now on to earth in Delft. ordered.

---

Walk from Kerkplein back to Torenstraat and turn left. The first side street on your right is Lange Brugstraat.

On the corner of Torenstraat and Lange Brugstraat is another seventeenth century stepped gable from around 1600 and the sign indicates the old name ft schaekbort (before 1727 e Het Dambord f) of this building. Take a look at the beautiful wall anchors.