10. At the Vishal you enter the Vismarktstraat; this street ends at the Havermarkt.

From the place where the fish hall (1725) still indicates that a lively trade in sea fish used to be conducted here, we walk through the Vismarktstraat to the Havermarkt. This market has been the nightlife center of Breda from the 1960s to the present day.
Despite the name Oatmarkt, it must be stated that the grains are not here; but were traded on the Grote Markt. However, local farmers brought in and sold vegetables, eggs and butter. A leather market was also held here in the seventeenth century.
The old names of this square were Groenmarkt, Botermarkt and Korenmarkt, which indicates the former functions somewhat better.

This was constructed around 1490 as a widening of the Visserstraat. If you grab a beer on a terrace on this delightful square in the summer, you will soon discover (even without that beer) that this square offers the best view of the large tower of the Grote Kerk.
From this spot you can also admire the beautiful broad substructure of that tower.
There is a lot to see in this little square. To the left on the corner of the Havermarkt and Reigerstraat you will see the house 'De Arent', built around 1490. It now has a seventeenth century stepped gable and was completely restored in 1966 and converted into a restaurant.
Opposite you on the Havermarkt there are two more buildings that deserve your attention. Oat market number 5 dates from the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. 'De Vogelstruys' on Havermarkt 21 is a remarkable seventeenth century monument with a high, non-symmetrical stepped gable. This house has also had all kinds of functions and destinations over the centuries. It was, among other things, a refuge for the sisters of Catherine Valley in the seventeenth century.
Four copies have been made for the figurine 'De Troubadour', which adorns the end of the Havermarkt. The other three were unveiled in Diest, Orange and Dillenburg, Breda's sister cities in the 1963 Union of Oranjesteden.
A little further on the Visserstraat (nr. 31), on the right, is a beautiful brick house from the 17th century with the remains of a 16th century gothic house, called the Drie Moren.

---